# Problem

Tweets are almost certainly the most common form of embedded media in news articles. There are two current approaches to including them in ANS documents: `raw_html` and `oembed_response`.  Both have serious drawbacks. `raw_html` is virtually unusable to non-HTML formats without doing a lot of parsing.  `oembed_response` is slightly better -- it is possible to extract the tweet id and identify that the object is a tweet without any string parsing. But the default twitter API oembed response leaves a lot to be desired.  In all likelihood, front-end implementations will either end up making their own call to the twitter API or else cleaning/parsing HTML.

# Proposal

This proposal aims to address the above problem with a dedicated `tweet` type and corresponding `reference`.

# Examples

## Referent

Like images, videos, and galleries, a tweet can be included inline or via a reference.

```
{
  "_id": "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ",
  "type": "reference",
  "referent": {
    "type": "tweet",
    "id": "210462857140252672",
    "service": "twitter"
  }
}
```

## Tweet



```
{
  "_id": "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ",
  "type": "tweet",
  "subtype": "",
  "channels": [ "web" ],
  "alignment": "center",
  "additional_properties": {
    "foo": "bar"
  },

  "referent": {
    "type": "tweet",
    "id": "210462857140252672",
    "service": "twitter"
  },

  "created_date": "2012-06-06T20:07:10.0Z",
  "content": "Along with our new #Twitterbird, we've also updated our Display Guidelines: https://t.co/Ed4omjYs  ",
  "credits": {
    "by": [
      {
        "name": "Twitter API",
        "slug": "twitterapi",
        "image": {
          "type": "image",
          "version": "0.5.9",
          "url": "http://a0.twimg.com/profile_images/2284174872/7df3h38zabcvjylnyfe3_normal.png"
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "retweet_count": 66,
  "favorite_count": 101,

  "raw_api_response": {
    "coordinates": null,
    "favorited": false,
    "truncated": false,
    "created_at": "Wed Jun 06 20:07:10 +0000 2012",
    "id_str": "210462857140252672",
    "entities": ...
  }
}
```

### Created Date

`created_date` should be an RFC3339 representation of the Twitter API's `created_at` field

### Content

`content` is an HTML-encoded representation of `text`

### Credits

`credits` follows the same credits structure as a document. However, here, it may not include references and is limited to one object.

* `name` - `user.name`
* `slug` - `user.screen_name`
* `image.url` - `user.profile_image_url`

### Counts

`retweet_count` and `favorite_count` are copied from the Twitter API response as-is.

### Raw Response ##

`raw_api_response` will include the entire JSON object returned from Twitter. It will not be indexed or searchable in elasticsearch, nor will it be validated. It is provided as a convenience for front-end developers but cannot be guaranteed to have any particular data.

# Concerns

## What are the benefits of this over oembed_response ?

* Tweets are easily idenitified when rendering a story, no parsing necessary
* More semantic, non-html specific data -- the fields here are able to be rendered without any HTML cleaning (at least, no more than a standard text element)
* Indexable and searchable in Content API / Elasticsearch
* Raw API response for tweet is better than a raw oembed response, typically has more data for fancy stuff

## What about entities?

Twitter's API response includes the concept of "entities" for links, images and other attachments in a tweet that can be related to the text of the tweet.  This proposal does not address entities at this time, though it may be added at a later date. Once a decision is finalized in terms how attributed text is to be handled in ANS, it will make more sense to revisit this. (In the meantime, all the entity data remains in the raw api response.)

## Why is `content` html-encoded?

To be consistent with the `content` field as used in other types.

## Why is the user data for a tweet shoe-horned into a credits object? It cannot be denormalized from the author service *ever*

A user object on a tweet seems much closer to a credit on a story than, say, a citation on a blockquote. It is not a perfect mapping with the author service -- notably, ANS authors have no concept of "screen name" -- but it is close enough that I am comfortable using it here.

## Why even bother with the ANS-named fields if all the data is in the raw api response?

Including them as ANS fields allows us to apply validation, gaurantee their presence (if we wish) and make them queryable.
