# Problem

A common genre of document across many publishers is a consumer review of products or media, such as movies, books, or gadgets. A consumer review is like any other article, but it often includes a formal rating of the item being reviewed. Rating values may be used:
* to create renderable widgets on the site (Four gold star graphics and one gray star graphic for "4/5 stars") or
* to sort content ("sort documents in this section by review score")

There are further complications in a multi-tenant environment. Different publishers -- or even different desks or writers within a publisher -- may position the rating in different places within an article. Not all publishers or desks may use the same review system ("4/5 starts" vs "9.1 (out of 10)" vs "Recommended" or "Not Recommended")

In some cases, like a round-up or a gift guide, a single article may also have multiple ratings for different items.

This proposal attempts to address most of these cases by providing new content elements for these purposes.

# Proposal

Two new content elements that represent numeric and non-numeric ratings values.

## New 'Numeric Rating' element

A new content element `numeric_rating` will be added to indicate a numeric rating, with the following fields:

* `numeric_rating` -- a float indicating the item's value (required)
* `min` -- a float the minimum possible value of rating
* `max` -- a float indicating the maximum possible value of rating
* `units` -- a string describing the rating units (e.g., "stars," "thumbs")

### Example
```
{
  "type": "numeric_rating",
  "numeric_rating": 4.5,
  "min": 0,
  "max": 5.0,
  "units": "stars"
}
```

## New 'Endorsement' element

A new content element `endorsement` will be added to indicate text-only appraisals

* `endorsement`: a string indicating the value (e.g. "Buy" or "Don't Buy") (required)


### Example
```
{
  "type": "endorsement",
  "endorsement": "Recommended"
}
```

`endorsements` should be used primarily when there is no quantifiable relationship between the various possible values.

The set of possible values for the `units` and `endorsement` fields are left deliberately undefined here.  The only restrictions on `rating`, `min` and `max` are that `rating` is required and `min` < `rating` < `max`. Templates and App UIs may implement restrictions on new input as they see fit, but they *must be able to interpret any arbitrary values for these fields in a reasonable way.*


## Document Example

```
{
  "type": "story",
  "version": "0.5.9",
  "headlines": {
    "basic": "Not So Beastly"
  },
  "content_elements": [
    {
        "type": "text",
        "content": "Disney's <em>Beauty and the Beast</em> is pretty good, all things considered."
    },
    {
        "type": "numeric_rating",
        "numeric_rating": 4.5,
        "min": 0,
        "max": 5,
        "units": "stars"
    },
    {
        "type": "endorsement",
        "endorsement": "Watch"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Concerns


### Is this queryable?

In general, yes.  All the new fields here will be indexed. Organizations will need to sort content taxonomically to make the best use of the system.  Documents with mutliple `numeric_rating` or `endorsement` elements will need to be carefully considered as well, since querying on `content_elements.numeric_rating:4.5` would match all documents that have *any* rating of 4.5 within content elements.


### Why floating points?

Many star systems use half values.  It's possible to represent that as something like:

```
{
  "numeric_rating": 9,
  "max": 10,
  "scale": 0.5
}
```
... to indicate 4.5 / 5 stars, but this seemed like more overhead than it was worth.  It is not expected that a lot of math is going to be done on these values, so the loss of precision when dealing with floating points is not expected to be a concern.


### Why two different element types?

A text-only endorsement is semantically different -- it is closer to a label or a tag than a ranking or a value. As explained above, it's certainly possible to render specific units as text tags instead of numbers, and that is encouraged usage.  But there will still be cases when a simple flag is all that is desired.


### Isn't this a little open-ended? I only want to mark items as "Buy" or "Don't Buy" but you're telling me I have to handle any possible value of endorsement?

For UIs -- yes. The set of possibilities is too large and will change to rapidly to enumerate them all in the schema, so you will have to surface any values present and allow them to be edited, regardless of your own input validation logic.

For templates, or other reader-facing renderers, checking for known values to render and ignoring the rest is perfectly appropriate.
