# Problem

Large organizations may group their staff into discrete content production teams or desks. Individuals may move between desks, 
or even work on different projects for different desks simultaneously. The content that individuals produce, however, remains part of the
the desk in terms of measuring desk productivity, determining responsibility for updating or re-publishing content, or other tasks.
This remains true even as individuals move in and out of different desks.  

Assigning content and authors to desks may enable organizations to perform analytics, 
search for content, and assign permissions to content based on desk in the future.


# Proposal

Two new fields to represent an author's desk and a content document's owning desk.

* `current_desk` -- Added to `author` utility objects to indicate an author's current desk.
* `desk.name` -- Added to top-level content documents (story, gallery, video, collection)


## Example - Staff Content
```json
{
  "_id": "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ",
  "type": "story",
  "version": "0.8.x",

  "credits": {
    "by": [
      {
        "type": "author",
        "version": "0.6.0",
        "byline": "Professor Gregory Engel",
        "name": "Gregory R. Engel",
        "current_desk": "Food / Beverages / Coffee"
      }
    ]
  },

  "headlines": {
    "basic": "Golden Assam Tea is the Greatest Tea and No One Will Convince Me Otherwise"
  },
  
  "desk": {
    "name": "Food / Beverages / Tea"
  }
}
```



# Implementation Plan

The implementation will be carried out in three phases.  Each phase will last approximately 20 business days.

### Phase One

The new `distributor` fields will be added to a new version of ANS. Applications will begin writing to the new `distributor` fields alongside the previous locations where they have written this data. They will continue to read from the old locations.

This phase is intended for testing and verifying that the new fields can be populated as expected.

### Phase Two

Applications will begin to read primarily from the new locations and use the previous locations as a fallback.  Writes will be exclusively to the new fields.

During this phase, organizations and applications can begin migrating data from the old to the new locations. End-to-end data pipeline testing can also take place.

### Phase Three

Applications will exclusively use the new field locations for reading and writing. Final pick-up migrations can take place.



# Questions

### When will the implementation plan begin?

Acceptance by all major stakeholders and the merging of this PR will constitute the beginning of Phase One.

### My organization has a large amount of data and does not want to re-ingest it through the entire content pipeline.

We don't want you to, either! If it is critical that all data be migrated to the new formats in a timely manner, please speak to the respective team owners to coordinate plans for behind-the-scenes migrations.
